# README

This application is a very simple app that implements a renewable energy certificate registry API.

## Problem overview

The business space in which we operate originated from statewide renewable energy mandates.
This is where states legislated that they wanted a certain percentage of their statewide 
energy consumption (typically 15%) to come from renewable sources. Eventually businesses 
also wanted to demonstrate that they also ran on some percentage (typically 100%) of 
renewable energy. Since electricty that is generated by a renewable source on the grid 
is indistiguisable from non-renewable electricity on the grid, there needed to be an 
accounting mechanism to keep track of the production of renewable energy. 

This software system acts essentially as that accounting system, that uses RECs (Renewable
Energy Certificates), which stand for 1 MWh or renewable electricity generation, as their
currency. This accounting system allows consumers of electricity to cover their usage by 
purchasing RECs in this market in the same amount as they consume. Our system allows an 
organization to proclaim that they run on 100% renweable energy if they purchase enough 
RECs to cover their consumption. The process of claiming RECs to cover one's 
usage is called retirement, which means to take REC's out of ciruculation so that no one else 
can claim them. The most important attribute of this system is its integrity. Just like a
bank, we can't afford to lose RECs or let accounts become unbalanced. Production (reported
generation) must match consumnption (retirements).

## App overview

There are 7 models in this app:

* Organization - every user is a member of one organization
* User - the user object holds the api_key used to access the API
* Generator - an organization can have zero or more renewable energy generators associated with it
* Generation - a generation is a record of generated energy from a generator over a period of time
* Certificate - when a valid generation is created, it creates an immutable certificate that has 
  details of a quantity of renewable energy. It is like a currency where a quantity of 1 stands for
  for 1 MWh or renewable energy, or 1 REC in industry speak.
* CertficateQuantity - a certificate quantity is a portion of a certificate that can be transferred to other
  users or stored in different accounts.
* Account - an account stores certificate quantities and has a balance of n RECs based on the total of 
  all certificate quantities that it holds.

When a user posts generation that is valid, it creates a certificate of the same quantity and a certificate
quantity of the same quantity as well into the organizations default account.

## API Usage

In this project is an export Postman collection. Once you have imported the Postman collection you can
interact with the API. The current user is selected by the header value of 'X-Api-Key'. There are two users
in the seeds each associated with an organization. All of the endpoints in the collection have the 'X-Api-Key' of
'abcd', which selects user with ID=1 which is associated with organization with ID=1. The other user / organization 
pair (ID=2) has an 'X-Api-Key' of 'xyz'. 

Below are a set of examples for using the API:

### View certificate quantities in your possesion

* hit Certificate Quantities / index endpoint

### Split a certificate quantity in preperation for a transfer

* hit Certificate Quantities / split endpoint with a quantity for the split
* hit Certificate Quantities / index endpoint to see the newly created split certificate quantity

### Retire a certificate

* hit Certificate Quantities / retire endpoint with one certificate

### Transfer a certificate to another organization

* hit Certificate Quantity / transfer endpoint with an organization_id parameter of 2
* hit Certificate Quantity / accept_transfer endpoint with a 'X-Api-Key' header of 'xyz'
* hit Certificate Quantity / index endpoint with a 'X-Api-Key' header of 'abcd' and 'xyz' 
  see both organization's inventory (which should be changed).

### Start a transfer a certificate and then cancel it

* hit Certificate Quantity / transfer endpoint with an organization_id parameter of 2
* hit Certificate Quantity / cancel_transfer endpoint

## Exercises

Below are three exercises that detail changes to this system. **Pick one to work on** and devote about
two hours to it. You can use any tools to work on it including LLMs. Be prepared to explain your 
design decisions and implentation details. 

### Exercise #1

Add a transaction log to this system that tracks the movement and modifications of certificate 
quantities so that there is enough information to recreate the certificate quantity's state
given the system's intital state and the transaction log. Also make sure that all transactions to
the system are performed serially in the face of concurent API requests.

### Exercise #2

Since integrity is such an important part of this system, here are a set of constraints that need to
be true in this system:
* generation dates must always be adjacent for a given generator, for example these generations are
  valid:
  * 2025/1/1 - 2025/1/31
  * 2025/2/1 - 2025/2/28
  * 2025/3/1 - 2025/3/31
  * removing the middle generation would make these invalid
* certificates can never be duplicated
* certificate quantities quantities must sum up to the certificate that they are derived from

Identify invariants that should always be true in the system and implement mechanisms to make sure that the system state is always correct. 

### Exercise #3

The design in the system currently is that each generator represents one fuel (wind or solar), but in the
real world, some generators have one electric meter for combined wind / solar farm. When submitting 
generation, it should generate one certificate/certificate quantity pair for each fuel. The user when
submitting generation should also submit theh quantities for each fuel of the fuel mix to determine the
quantities for the certificates created.

## Component versions

This uses ruby 3.3.9 and rails 8.0.2. 

### Installation

Depending on your OS, you instructions will be different. We are using SQLite to simplify setup. Here is how to get the app installed on MacOS
using RVM.

```
rvm install "ruby-3.3.9"  --with-openssl-dir=$(brew --prefix openssl@1.1)
gem update --system 
bundle install
```

### Getting started

Once ruby and the application is installed, run:

```
rails db:setup
```

This sets up two organizations each with one generation / certificate / certificate quantity. The first organization's
user has an api key of 'abcd', and the second of 'xyz'. The HTTP header of X-Api-Key's value selects
which user you are operating as.

Next import the postman collection into postman, and start poking around.
